hi this is Nash today I'm gonna talk to
you about two essential hormones in
regard to fat loss so we're gonna talk
to me about insulin and glucagon let's
start with insulin first
insulin is the hormone responsible for
taking the blood sugar from your
bloodstream into the glycogen stores and
also into the fat stores so if your
glucose if your blood sugar level is
high insulin will be released from
pancreas and it will take that extra
amount of glucose into the blood and
stores but that only happens if your
glycogen stores are empty once your
glycogen stores are full
insulin will be taking extra blood sugar
into the fat cells so think twice if
your glycogen stores full insulin will
take extra sugar extra blood sugar into
the fat cells now this is not the only
thing that happens high level of insulin
actually releases the enzyme called
lipoprotein lipase that enzyme simply
seals fat cells and doesn't allow them
to break down and release fatty acids
into the bloodstream basically
lipoprotein lipase is an enzyme that
prevents fat loss so high level of
insulin are the reason why you cannot
lose body fat so even if you don't eat
many calories but most of your food is
made of simple sugars you will still
produce too much insulin which will
prevent you from breaking fat cells and
starting fat-burning procedure just to
remind you again inside insulin level
trigger the production of enzyme called
a lipoprotein lipase which simply seals
fat cells and doesn't allow them to
break down into fatty acids so you
cannot lose body fat
now while progress produces insulin
functions also produces a hormone called
glucagon so if you are thinking about
fat burning of fat loss remember insulin
is not your friend
but local go glucagon will be your very
good friend so why is that well when
blood sugar level is high obviously
punkers produces insulin to take the
extra blood sugar and store it either in
glycogen or in body fat but if blood
sugar level is low then pump rest
reduces form
glucagon which tries to break down body
fat cells and helps the body to use
energy from free fatty acids so by
breaking down body fat cells glucagon
helps you keep going keep your energy
levels up now how does one do that well
there is another enzyme now called
hormone sensitive lipase death hormone
is that enzyme is completely opposite
that the previous one called lipoprotein
lipase and for most sensitive lipase
actually stimulates fat cells breaks
them down and allow fatty acid to be
dumped into the bloodstream unused as
energy so free fatty acids can be used
as energy and if you manage your
glucagon levels high in the body you
will be in fat-burning mode so basically
high insulin level you store body fat
and you cannot burn it five local level
and you will be burning body fat now how
do you cause
hi new Google level is caused by eating
protein in every meal so high protein
diet which means protein in every meal
anything between 30 to 60 grams of
protein depending on your size or your
activity on a fitness level metabolism
etc will be required for production of
glucagon more glucagon less body fat
more insulin more body fat so choice is
yours